Before we dive into this code and learn how it's all set up,
there's one thing else store is missing and that is products.
An online store with no content isn't very good,
and the main content that you would have on an online store by its nature is products.
Right here you can see that at least,
Shopify gives you some place holders,
but if you click on these,
they're not actual products that you can interact with.
What we're going to need is some products.
Now, if you are developing your own Shopify theme and you're just following
along this course to learn more about how you can customize your theme.
Maybe you already have some products.
Maybe now is a good time to add products into your store.
But if you're just here to learn Shopify theme development,
and you don't have a stored or work on right now,
you're going to need some demo products.
So lucky for us,
Shopify provides a small set of demo products through their timber theme.
If we go and search for Shopify timber or Shopify timber theme in Google,
it should be the first link that comes up.
I'm going to click on that to give you a little bit of context,
timber is archives now it's no longer in use,
but this used to be what is now Slate.
It used to be this starter theme that Shopify provided,
now they use Slate,
which I mentioned previously,
but we'll go into more detail on Slate and in later video.
The reason why I'm bringing you here to the timbre theme Git repository is that
they still have it up and they have
this CSV file for importing some products into your website.
If we download this CSV file,
I've already got it downloaded right there,
so I'm not going to download it again,
and then we go back to our online store.
We go into our products menu and we click Import, just below products.
We can grab that file.
Click Upload, just click Start Import.
It might take a little bit of time to run that,
but when that's done,
you will now see products imported,
and you've got a bunch of example products,
all of them, basically shoes.
If we go into any of these,
we can click View.
It'll open up a new tab in which we can view
the product page with this particular product loaded in.
We've got a pretty nice product page already because we're
using a duplicate of the debut theme,
but you can edit this as much as you want.
You can have the layout different.
It's up to you, you have access to the whole theme code now.
One thing we've got is the input breaks with the variance.
We're going to have to go back here,
and down in variance,
we're just going to delete all variance.
As you're running an online store,
products are central to your store.
This video is going to focus mainly on products.
Here in your products page in the Shopify admin,
you have the ability to duplicate view and promote.
You can change the title, the description.
This is where you add your product images.
Pretty simple, pretty self-explanatory, putting your pricing,
but the parts of your product page that I want to get into and discuss more
about in this lesson are variance and organization,
so product type, vendor, collections and tags.
First of all, variance.
A variant is basically the different variations of the product.
You'll start to see what I mean by that in just a second.
If I click Add variant,
it gives me the option of setting an option name and a list of possible values.
A pretty standard one is size,
and it's definitely relevant for a product like this,
not everyone is going to want the same size of sneaker.
What we can do is put in different values separated by a comma,
and you'll see what happens when I put the comma in.
If I press 8, 9, 10,
11, 12, you can see that I have this option size and I have five possible values.
So I am saying that these shoes are available in these five sizes.
If you go down here,
a table of variance has been created.
Because I only have one option,
and I have five option values,
I just get five variance because you can only order the shoe in five possible variations.
But if I was to add another option, say for color.
Let's say, I can get all sizes either in red or black.
Then suddenly my list of variance expands and doubles.
That's because we need to multiply the number of values in
one option field with the rest of the option fields,
that will give you the total amount of possible variations
given that we are able to have red in nine, black in eight.
All of these different options combined together create different variance.
We can add a third one in here,
says material by default.
I don't know what material shoes are made out of.
Let's just go with a common material cotton.
That's not going to increase the amount of
variance we have here because there's only one possible value,
defeats the whole purpose of using variance if it's just going to be one value,
so we have to put in more.
Let's say, Lycra, probably doesn't make any sense for shoes.
But I'm just coming up with stuff off the top of my head.
Three options is the max in Shopify.
If I add more values to all of these,
it can start to multiply and get out of hand pretty quickly and actually
Shopify limits to you too 100 possible variance on every product.
This obviously depends on if I do have every possible combination in stock,
and as that product available,
do I have cotton red size eight sneakers and red-black 10 sneakers.
That's up to me to figure out what variables or what variations I have in my own store,
and put those in.
This is irrelevant, so I'm going to remove that.
With these different options,
it's going to create 10 variants for us.
The point I want to get across here,
and the thing that tripped me up is,
these are the variance here.
These are your options. All right.
These are variance, these are.
If I click Save on that,
you'll see that we get this nice little table here and we can update
SKUs here or add in variant images for specific variance.
We can also filter selections by clicking on an option value.
Go in here and just check the ones we want to edit and edit them in bulk.
But to see what that looks like on the front end,
what I'm going to do, we've already hit Save,
so we can click View,
and we can see what that's going to look like to the user.
As you can see here on the front end,
the user just gets two options,
and I want it in size nine,
and I wanted them black.
Then they'll add to code.
For us, in order to fulfill the needs of the customer who can have these options,
we're going to need all of these in black and all of these in red,
so I'll need 10 different shoes in total.
But for the user, they just get to have more customization options.
Hopefully, that clears up variance and makes that pretty clear.
There's one more thing we can do to provide a better customer experience,
and that is to use variant images.
I've got a random picture of black shoes on my desktop.
What I'm going to do is click Black,
and I'm going to update images for all black shoes.
I click on Add Image,
and I've got these Nike sneakers here that are a black color.
It's going to upload them.
You're just going to have to ignore the fact that these aren't the exact same shoe.
If I save the page and right click on "View" and select "Black",
you'll see that it automatically switches to
that product image that represents that variant.
Size is going to look pretty much the same, so it doesn't make sense,
but color is a perfect example of when you change this,
you want your product images to change.
It only works one way,
I forgot to set this to Red,
so it works backwards as well,
but you get the point, okay?
Actually, I'll just go in there and do that now just to be thorough,
update images of all the red,
and set that as the variant image.
The next thing is Organization and the main ones here are Collections and Tags.
These are the most important by far out of your Organization options.
These are extra Organization options you have for Product Type and Vendor.
Vendor is a good place to categorize your stock by the brand,
so maybe you want to make the Vendor of this, Nike,
and Product Type, you might want to put in shoes.
In my experience, what I've found is Collections and
Tags are the main ways that you can categorize your content.
Speaking of the word category,
you can think of Collections like categories,
but unlike categories in some other kind of platforms like WordPress,
for example, which I've worked with in the past,
you can't nest collections.
You have to be more strategic about how you nest your products into different categories.
At the very top of your Organization structure should be Collections.
If I go to my store here,
making sure I'm on preview,
and I type into my URL collections/all,
you'll see that there is a collection that comes default
with the Shopify platform and that is the all collection.
You don't need to set it up in your backend,
you won't actually see it in your backend,
but if you go to collections/all on any Shopify website,
you'll see all the products that are public on that website.
You can go through and check them out.
This, by the way, is showing your collection template,
so we'll get into that when we get into code.
But if you go into your Templates here,
the code that you set here,
it's linking to a section,
so let me just go into that section,
this is the code that runs every time you hit a collection page.
Now, obviously, the products and other features might change,
but that is dynamic based on the code that you put in this template file and section.
Sorry, jumping ahead a bit there,
just wanted to make note that anytime you view a collection,
you're viewing it within a collection template.
As I just mentioned,
this is an automatic default collection page that you get with every Shopify theme.
But if we want to create our own collection,
we can do so by going into the Products menu and clicking "Collections."
We can go Create Collection and let's call this one, featured products.
We can add a description if we want and then we select the "Collection Type."
You can either manually add the products one by one,
and you can do that either in the product themselves or right here,
after we save, or you can make it Automatic based on certain conditions.
You can use Product Tag,
Price, Vendor, Type, Compare at Price,
Weight, to create your custom filter and then put that into a collection.
You could use price to maybe show
all products that are on sale for less than $10 and maybe,
that's a collection that you want to create.
But for our purposes,
I'm just going to go with Manual and I'm going to click "Save" and that'll
refresh the page in order for us to add in some products.
You can use this to search or you can click "Browse."
I want to select these ones at the end,
I definitely need to select "Gnarly Shoes",
my God, Good Old Shoes, oh yeah.
I want the Insane Shoes,
my God, that sounds great.
We've got our five different products in our collection,
and it looks like that is automatically saved.
If I go and click "View" now on that collection,
we'll get a similar page to what we saw before,
but now it has our custom collection name,
and it has the shoes or products that we added into that collection ourselves.
Now right here, you have sort by and that comes pretty standard with most themes,
but we can filter again using tags.
Let's go back to our sneaker and instead of putting Nike,
which appears to be the brand,
with this Nike ticked there,
instead of putting that in Vendor,
which would be a good place to put a brand,
let's just say we want it to be a tag because that's easier to filter
with and tags are very powerful as you'll see throughout your Shopify journey.
Let's just put in Nike as a tag.
I'm going to click "Save" on that.
Now, I want you to notice what happens to this bar when we refresh the page.
You'll now see, we can filter by tag,
and this is built into our theme.
We can go in here, filter again,
and the other thing I want you to notice is our URL.
Remember before we went on collections/all,
now we're on collections/featuredproducts,
which is the name of our collection,
and then after that, we have Nike.
We can actually put the tag name in the URL.
If I was to share this with somebody,
then they would see the same filter.
It's a pretty cool way of filtering your products and
building basically almost like nested collections.
Although, this title still says featured products,
it's filtering by Nike here,
so you can see that feedback there,
but this is a way to filter from within your bigger collections.
At the end of the day, we could also create a new collection for featured Nike.
We can go into Collections,
Create a Collection and let's say,
we call that featured Nike shoes or products.
Let's say, in our mind,
it's a nested category of that other collection.
Well, unfortunately, like I mentioned, Collections can't nest,
but what we can do is set a condition that the product tag
must equal Nike and then we could set up
another condition and tag all of those products in
the featured collection with another tag that says featured, let's say.
Let's just do that now.
I don't have that yet,
so I'm just going to save the Nike.
Oh, here we go, we need to remove that.
This is just going to show all products that have Nike in them,
and you can see here it's autopopulating,
but let's just say that we want all of these.
Again, this is not super clean,
but if I went into all of these products and then gave them a tag of featured.
If, I'm just going to rush through this part.
Now that I've added the featured tag to all of the featured products,
I can go into featured Nike products,
add another condition for product tag has featured.
Hit save. Now we can see that
awesome sneakers comes through because it is featured and it is Nike.
To go back and apply this same logic to our featured products,
maybe we want to make this automatic.
Fortunately, we've already set it manually.
We'd have to go delete that one.
Let's create another one that's called Featured Collection.
When the tag is featured,
we will include all of those products in the Featured Collection.
Now we can go into Featured Collection which we had before,
but now it's automatic based on tags.
And we can filter by Nike.
Or if we wanted to have some custom content,
like have a description or we wanted this title to change,
we could go to how, I think it was,
let's go back and we can just view it from within here, Featured Nike products.
As you'll see, this is similar to this,
but it's just set up in a slightly different way.
If we have a collection,
there's more options available to us to show the title that comes up.
We also have access to the collection object,
which allows us to grab all the products within that collection.
Again, that's getting a bit ahead of myself.
But you can see at the very top,
collections is a way to organize your store.
You could always just organize your store with tags alone, like that's possible.
But most themes, they have a collection page and then you filter by tag,
which is the standard shopify way of doing it.
That's essentially how you would usually organize your products.
Like I said, you can also organize by product type and vendor,
but this is not particularly important to us.
Just another way that you can filter and other variables that you
have access to within your theme code.
I spent a lot of time on the product page.
There are other menu items here in the shopify dashboard, obviously.
Orders which isn't really gonna make much sense until somebody orders a product.
Customers are the details of the people who have placed an order with you and
analytics you can go in and see who's using
your store and how many sales you've made, marketing.
All these kind of relate to the day-to-day running of your store.
Not necessarily related to your theme.
But what I wanted to do was go into products because products kind of,
that's like the content of your website.
It very much relates to theme development and that's why I wanted to dig
into products and collections a little bit more.
Going back to our online store here,
you can see that we can also create other content in the way of blog posts and pages.
Now we're going to add a page later in this class and
a blog post if you've used any other kind of platform that does blogging.
A blog post is essentially a page with a timestamp on it and then
it's put into a feed that shows the most recent article first.
You're familiar with a blog.
Technically, it is really the same as a page,
but just has a different purpose.
You can also go in here,
and this is where you update your navigation,
which in your code is called a linked list.
You can go in here and add in a menu.
Not sure if we'll get into that in this particular class.
But right now you can see that we're running,
which menu I'll be running,
the Main Menu here.
So in our customizer we've set,
it's to pull in Main Menu.
If we go into navigation here we can see it's got Home and Catalog,
which is what we have there. That matches.
Domains, preferences.
Preferences we saw before when we turned off the password for the site.
There's some other stuff here that you can put in
Google Analytics code or change your SEO data.
But the final thing I wanted to finish on in
this particular lesson and the part of your store that most relates to the theme,
of course, is going to be your theme customizer.
We already went over this customizer briefly in a previous lesson.
I don't want to spend too much time going over the same details.
But essentially, we mentioned the Collection Page before.
You can go in and modify right here it's defaulting to feature Nike products.
But we can go in, change the grid.
We can show product vendors and it's going to show the tets.
I don't know what tets is,
but that's the joy of demo products.
You can show the collection image,
which for this collection we don't have.
All of this is setup within a section called Collection Pages or in our back-end,
it's called Collection Template.
I'll show you that all of these options come through a schema that we've written here.
That's just to give you a preview of what's to come in this class.
I think that's a pretty good overview of your Shopify back-end.
Obviously, products are the main thing that your site is going to be
promoting and the main thing that you'll be interacting with, with your code,
it'll be your customization of your store is generally going to be
around presenting your products in the best way with the best options,
filtering in a way that makes sense for the user.
Then having good navigation,
which is pretty self-explanatory.
Setting up good pages for that navigation to link to.
If you have an About page or a Contact Us page.
But yeah, that kind of covers an overview of
the Shopify online store experience from the perspective of the seller.
Now in the next few videos,
we're going to dig into your theme code.
So this is where we get into
the actual Shopify theme development or
theme customization because we're not developing something from scratch.
But we will be going into the code and how you can basically edit
anything about your theme and actually
where to find the code that you want to go and edit.
I'll see you in the next video.